# Features: Places

By nature, politics is place-based, and thus reform efforts are, as well. DemocraCRM provides powerful spatial
functionality to help structure and support both the organizing and lobbying efforts.


## Boundaries

Boundaries are formal political areas defined and run by the respective governing bodies having jurisdiction there. In
DemocraCRM, for the purpose of lobbying, this includes:

* Nations
* States
* Legislative districts
* Counties
* Municipalities

!!! info

    The initial focus is on boundaries in the United States, but if interest in DemocraCRM expands, other nations and 
    their boundaries could be included.

!!! note

    Boundaries are managed and maintained by the DemocraCRM developers, but can be used in many ways by the users and
    organizations on the platform. The current list of ways to utilize boundaries is discussed in the subheaders below.

### Governing Bodies

Boundaries define the area(s) of a governing body, such as a state boundary for the state government. Using Pennsylvania
as an example, the Pennsylvania State Government is a state-level governing body, and so would be linked to the boundary
record for the state of Pennsylvania.

### Political Subdivisions

Boundaries also define the area(s) of the political subdivision(s) for each public office of a governing body. Continuing
with the example of the Pennsylvania State Government, the three primary public offices would be the State Senate, the
State House, and the Governor.

In Pennsylvania, the legislative districts for both the Senate and the House divide the state up into a separate
district for each legislative seat, so a political subdivision record represents each district across the state. For the
the Governor, which is the single elected executive official for that public office, the political subdivision would be
the entire state.

### Organization Accounts

All organizations that create a DemocraCRM account must select the highest boundary they will be campaigning in as their
territory. This will help to provide spatial focus on that area and the ones below it. So if your organization is
working on reform efforts in Pennsylvania State Government, the boundary would be the state of Pennsylvania.

!!! note

    An organization can change its territory at any time, however it would be important to be aware of and ideally
    collaborate with neighboring organizations that work at that level, if possible.

### Regions

!!! note

    A Region is a special application of boundaries within the platform, and so is covered in detail in its own section
    below. While boundaries are built into the platform, they can be extended within organizations into regions.

## Regions

Regions are user-defined groups of boundaries (of the same level) that can be used for organizing purposes within an
organization account. Multiple regions can be created within an organization account, and assigned to the record types
below.

### Organizations

Organization records used to track other organizations can have a region linked to them. This is helpful, for example,
to know in what communities a partnering organization is active in.

### Chapters

Chapters are specifically formed to subdivide an organization's territory into regions, such as to build up the base of
people involved in each area and coordinate efforts for large campaign actions. A region must be added to each chapter
when created.

!!! warning

    Regions assigned to chapters will be validated to ensure they do not overlap with the regions of other chapters.

## Region Groups

Region Groups are available to help organize Regions, when necessary.


## Sites

Sites are specific points that can be mapped. They can be addressable, by street address, such as a building, or they
can be based on coordinates, such as a rally point for a campaign action.

## Site Groups

Site Groups are available to help organize Sites, when necessary.

## Locations

Locations are areas within a Site, and they can be hierarchical. As an example, if an organization frequents a capitol
building to meet with public officials and stage actions in specific areas of the building, locations can be used to
divide up the building by floor, office suite, entrances, or whatever helps for planning purposes.